Company memorandum
To: Maria Gonzalez, Supervisor
From: Irakoze Benit Isaac, Organizational Development Analyst
Subject: Analyzing a group dynamics at Idebate Rwanda.
Date 24th February 2025

Group Description using social science.
Psychological perspective.
As a volunteer at Idebate Rwanda Organization, an organization that focuses on developing youth critical thinking and civic engagement thought debates. I observed different psychological dynamics. I joined Idebate Rwanda as a debater in high school and after finishing high school I volunteered as a debate coach because I belief in debate as a tool for societal change.
Psychological concepts:
Social loafing: during meeting and event planning junior volunteers often hesitated to contribute ideas, thinking that senior volunteers have already thought of it.
Conformity: New debaters that join Idebate mostly copy the experienced debaters’ argumentative style, even when it’s not the best time to use it.
Sociological perspective:

Roles: all member of Idebate have different roles including the leader of the organization the and different leaders in many department like coaching, outreach team and logistics officers.
Social norms: we have a culture of weekly progress reviews where we assess our progress and achievement in the previous week and then make a decision as a group on how to continue forward. 
Anthropological perspective:

Unity: we work in groups and made decisions as a team because we believe in the power of working together and impact of many people’s ideas.
We have a ritual: of pre-debate motivational chant that help us start with a good energetic mode.
Issues that impact the groups dynamics.
A critical challenge was communication gaps between debate coaches and the logistic team, coaches mostly plan events that the organization can’t afford so the logistic officers can’t let the company loss money or its reputation.
Social science analysis
Psychology: logistical team things that coaches are incompetent because they make promises, they can’t keep will coaches think logistic officers are not informative because they don’t prepare the available things before time.
Sociology: the society of Rwanda have not yet validated the value of debate to you children and youth they think it’s being teaching them how to disrespect elders’ decisions while it improves their critical thinking and problem-solving abilities. 
Anthropology: Some coaches prefer online coaching and think it’s effect will others prefer face-to-face because it’s when you can assess improvement and understanding of what you’re teaching which make it hard for the coach with different perspective to work together.
Recommendation:
Psychology: we could make meeting between coaches and the logistics team and make some activities that make them work together so that they understand that they both want the same thing which the growth of the business.
Sociology: we still have a journey to teach our society using different platforms like social medial and broadcasting debates on tv’s which would show our community that debate is not just arguing and show them that there is more to it like learning and research.
Anthropology: we would make assessments about both methods for instance like assessing the growth of student who studied online and those who learned in-person. 
If all this would be applied then Idebate would be more effective and achieve its goals easily.  
